machine learning is a set of algorithms learned from data and/or experiences. Machine learning is the underlying technology of artificial intelligence (AI) It is becoming increasingly important to understand what machine learning is, how it differs from AI, and how it will play a major role in the future. From TV suggestions to self-driving cars, machine learning is subtly in the background of almost all that we do. These algorithms, and machine learning as a whole, is intended to improve and radically simplify our lives. According to Srinivas Bangalore, Director of Research and Technology at Interactions, “good machine learning should not be in your face” In 1992, researchers at AT&T deployed the first nationwide automated speech recognition (ASR) using a machine learning approach called Hidden Markov Models (HMMs) In 1996, a group of researchers proposed the first convolutional neural network (CNN) The influence of this technology was not appreciated until 10 years later when it became rebranded as deep learning. Google and Facebook made machine learning the pivotal technology of their businesses in 2014. In 2015, Interactions acquired AT&T’s Watson and the AT & T speech and language research team. In both companies, machine                 learning was led by ex-AT&T researchers. Jay Wilpon, Senior Vice President of Natural Language Research at Interactions, best describes how machine learning works by using an analogy of fruits. Machine learning is not a concrete set of algorithms used across the board. Depending on what you are trying to achieve, different algorithms and different algorithms can be used. How do you know when to use which technology and/or algorithm? The answer heavily relies on the type of data, and amount of data available. Unsupervised learning uses unlabeled data. This type of learning works well with clustering, which is when data is categorized into groups of similar data. Inspired by the psychological idea of reinforcement behavior, reinforcement learning is the idea of learning by doing. Deep neural networks (DNNs) cover a huge range of different neuralarchitectures. Interactions understands the crucial role the human element plays                 in artificial intelligence. Our proprietary Adaptive Understanding™ technology combines speech recognition, natural  language processing, and Human Assisted Understanding. This enables continuous improvement and  southeasternlearning in live applications. Machine learning can be used to uncover hidden energy patterns, learn customer’s behaviors, and more. Algorithms work to make oil distribution more efficient and cost-effective. Machine learning allows online brands to suggest and advertise things you may like based on your browser history. Machine learning relies on labeled data to learn. Many cases when data isn’t readily available or unlabeled. This makes creating algorithms more challenging. With more data, better algorithms, and improved accuracy, the possibilities of this technology in the future are endless. Dr. Srinivas Bangalore is the Director of Research and Technology at Interactions. Dr. Patrick Haffner is a Lead Inventive Scientist at Inter interactions. Michael Johnston has over 25 years of experience in speech and language technology. Dr. Johnston has over 50 technical papers and 32 patents in speech and language processing. Before joining Interactions, he held positions at AT&T Labs Research, Oregon Graduate Institute and Brandeis University. He is member of the board of AVIOS and editor and chair for the W3C EMMA multimodal standard.